
# Overview


SlipStream™ is available as public [hosted
service](https://slipstream.sixsq.com), our hosted service supports a
number of clouds. Before you can successfully use these clouds, you will
need to have valid accounts with them.

This tutorial document is composed of several tutorials of increasing
complexity, designed to get you started on SlipStream™ as fast and
simply as possible. The first [Simple Client/Server
Tutorial](#chap-client-server) uses the Apache2 web server to
demonstrate a "hello world" of distributed system tests using
SlipStream™. In this first tutorial, we show you how to use existing
base images to create a deployment to test a simple client/server pair
running on two different virtual machines in the cloud.

Reusing the first tutorial, we then move to a slightly more complex
scenario where we show you how with a few button clicks the first
tutorial can be turned into a powerful performance system test. This
second case deploys several clients in parallel to show how to produce
increased load on the web server.

We execute the tutorials in this document daily to make sure that the
fundamentals of these tutorials are sound. However, if you experience
problems going through these tutorials, you'll find a special appendix
to this document with troubleshooting tips. If you think that any of
these tutorials are not clear, confusing, missing insights or could
simply be made better, please help us improving them by sending your
feedback to <support@sixsq.com>.

## Tutorial Solutions

instance and you want to use it for this tutorial, please make sure
that your instance of SlipStream™ includes the Tutorial SlipStream™
Projects, which ships with the product by default.


You can find the solutions to the SlipStream™ tutorials on the server in
the `Public/Tutorials` project area. All of the required projects are
publicly readable, you therefore only need a standard SlipStream™
account to view them.
